docs-dev/ARCHITECTURE.md, before:

# Email Automator - Hybrid Architecture

## Overview

Email Automator uses a **hybrid architecture** that combines Supabase Edge Functions with a Local Express API to provide a serverless, privacy-first email automation solution aligned with the RealTimeX Local Apps pattern.

## User Setup (Simple)

Users only need to provide:
- **Supabase Project URL**
- **Supabase Publishable/Anon Key**

Edge Functions are deployed once to their project via RealTimeX Desktop or Supabase CLI.

## Architecture Components

```
Frontend (React) → Edge Functions (Auth/DB) → Supabase Database
                 ↘ Express API (Sync/AI)    ↗
```

## Data Flow: Async ETL Pipeline

Email Automator uses an Asynchronous **Extract, Transform, Load (ETL)** pattern to handle large inboxes without timeouts:

1.  **Extract (Ingestion)**: Local App fetches raw RFC822 MIME source from the provider (Gmail/Outlook).
2.  **Transform (Storage)**: Raw content is saved as `.eml` files on local disk (default: `./data/emails`). Only metadata (subject, sender, etc.) is saved to the database.
3.  **Load (AI Analysis)**: A background worker picks up "Pending" emails, parses the local files, extracts technical headers, and sends cleaned text to the LLM for categorization and decision-making.

## Component Responsibilities

### Edge Functions (Serverless)
- OAuth Management (Gmail, Microsoft)
- Secure Credential Storage
- Database Proxy (CRUD with RLS)
- Authentication & Profile Management

### Express API (Local App / Background Worker)
- Asynchronous Ingestion & Checkpointing
- Local Disk Management (.eml storage)
- AI Intelligence (Categorization, Intent Matching)
- Automation Execution (Drafting, Trashing, Moving)
- Real-time Event Logging (Live Terminal)

## Local App Portability

The Local App is designed to be highly portable:
- **Sandbox Friendly**: Automatically falls back to user home directory (`~/.email-automator/emails`) if project-relative storage is restricted.
- **Self-Healing**: Automatically refreshes provider tokens and Supabase sessions in the background.
- **Interactive**: Emits real-time state changes via Supabase Realtime for the "Live Activity" dashboard.

## Deployment

```bash
# Deploy Edge Functions
./scripts/deploy-functions.sh

# Run Local App
npm run dev:api

# Run Frontend
npm run dev
```

## Benefits

1. **Privacy** - AI processing happens locally
2. **Cost Efficiency** - Heavy compute runs on user's hardware
3. **Serverless Auth** - OAuth works even when local app is offline
4. **Security** - OAuth secrets never leave Supabase

Commit message:

release: v2.10.10 - Update architecture documentation for migration engine

docs-dev/ARCHITECTURE.md, after:

# Email Automator - Hybrid Architecture

## Overview

Email Automator uses a **hybrid architecture** that combines Supabase Edge Functions with a Local Express API to provide a serverless, privacy-first email automation solution aligned with the RealTimeX Local Apps pattern.

## User Setup (Simple)

Users only need to provide:
- **Supabase Project URL**
- **Supabase Publishable/Anon Key**

The application automatically detects if the database is uninitialized and prompts the user to run an **Automated Setup**. This process, triggered directly from the browser, performs database migrations and deploys Edge Functions using the bundled backend configuration.

## Backend Orchestration: The Migration Engine

The `scripts/migrate.sh` script is the primary engine for backend deployment. It has been optimized for the RealTimeX ecosystem:

- **Bundled Assets**: Unlike traditional scripts that download source code from GitHub, this script uses the migrations and configuration files bundled directly within the NPM package.
- **Portable CLI**: It prioritizes the *bundled Supabase CLI* (located in `node_modules/.bin`) to ensure version consistency and compatibility in restricted environments (like realtimex.ai sandboxes) where global CLI installation might be impossible.
- **Consolidated Workflow**: A single execution handles:
    1.  Linking to the remote Supabase project.
    2.  Applying database schema migrations.
    3.  Pushing project configuration (Auth, Storage, etc.).
    4.  Deploying all Edge Functions (API endpoints).
- **Automation Ready**: Supports non-interactive mode via environment variables, allowing the Express API to trigger deployments securely on behalf of the user.

## Architecture Components

```
Frontend (React) → Edge Functions (Auth/DB) → Supabase Database
                 ↘ Express API (Sync/AI)    ↗
```

## Data Flow: Async ETL Pipeline

Email Automator uses an Asynchronous **Extract, Transform, Load (ETL)** pattern to handle large inboxes without timeouts:

1.  **Extract (Ingestion)**: Local App fetches raw RFC822 MIME source from the provider (Gmail/Outlook).
2.  **Transform (Storage)**: Raw content is saved as `.eml` files on local disk (default: `./data/emails`). Only metadata (subject, sender, etc.) is saved to the database.
3.  **Load (AI Analysis)**: A background worker picks up "Pending" emails, parses the local files, extracts technical headers, and sends cleaned text to the LLM for categorization and decision-making.

## Component Responsibilities

### Edge Functions (Serverless)
- OAuth Management (Gmail, Microsoft)
- Secure Credential Storage
- Database Proxy (CRUD with RLS)
- Authentication & Profile Management

### Express API (Local App / Background Worker)
- Asynchronous Ingestion & Checkpointing
- Local Disk Management (.eml storage)
- AI Intelligence (Categorization, Intent Matching)
- Automation Execution (Drafting, Trashing, Moving)
- Real-time Event Logging (Live Terminal)

## Local App Portability

The Local App is designed to be highly portable:
- **Sandbox Friendly**: Automatically falls back to user home directory (`~/.email-automator/emails`) if project-relative storage is restricted.
- **Self-Healing**: Automatically refreshes provider tokens and Supabase sessions in the background.
- **Interactive**: Emits real-time state changes via Supabase Realtime for the "Live Activity" dashboard.

## Deployment

```bash
# Apply migrations AND deploy Edge Functions
./scripts/migrate.sh

# Run Local App (Express API + Background Worker)
npm run dev:api

# Run Frontend (Vite)
npm run dev
```

## Benefits

1. **Privacy** - AI processing happens locally
2. **Cost Efficiency** - Heavy compute runs on user's hardware
3. **Serverless Auth** - OAuth works even when local app is offline
4. **Security** - OAuth secrets never leave Supabase
